# python-api-challenge

# Disclaimer: The python api challenge starter code was used as a template for my code.

# WeatherPi: The file starts by loading in appropriate functions and the user's API key for OpenWeather. The starter code to generate a cities list. The cities list is looped through to find the weather data for each city from the OpenWeather API. The weather data was output into a dataframe and an output csv. Using the weather data, scatter plots were created to display latitude vs temperature, latitude vs humidity, latitude vs cloudiness, and latitiude vs wind speed. The weather data was then divided by cities in the northern hemisphere and cities in the southern atmosphere. Additional scatter plots were generated to display the linear regression, r value, and model formula for latitude vs temperature, latitude vs humidity, latitude vs cloudiness, and latitiude vs wind speed for both the northern hemisphere and southern hemisphere. In regards to latitiude vs max temp, the northern hemisphere has a negative correlation - as latitude increases, max temp decreases. 
# WeatherPi Analysis: In regards to latitiude vs max temp, the southern hemisphere has a postive correlation - as latitude increases, max temp decrease. In regards to latitiude vs humidity for both the northern hemisphere and southern hemisphere, the small r values lead to a conclusion that there is no correlation between latitude and humidity. In regards to latitiude vs cloudiness for both the northern hemisphere and southern hemisphere, the small r values lead to a conclusion that there is no correlation between latitude and cloudiness. In regards to latitiude vs wind speed for both the northern hemisphere and southern hemisphere, the small r values lead to a conclusion that there is no correlation between latitude and wind speed.

# VacationPi: The file starts by loading in the appropriate functions and the user's API key for Geoapify. The WeatherPi output csv is read for weather data. A map is created to display a point for every city from the output file with the size of each point being the humidity in each city. The weather data is narrowed down to an ideal weather condition of max temperature lower than 27 C and higher than 21 C, wind speed less than 4.5 m/s, and a cloudiness of 0. With this reduction of weather data, the first hotel within 10,000 meters of the each city's coordinates is found. Another map is generated to display a point for every city with the size of the point being humidity, but the city hover message additionally displays each city's country and first hotel within 10,000 meters. 